# Research-and-Development-AI-Assignment
Curve Fitting Assignment (θ, M, X Estimation)

Goal :
The objective of this work is to identify the three unknown constants (θ, M, and X) of a parametric curve so that the curve generated by the mathematical model closely resembles the provided dataset (xy_data.csv).  
By lowering the total error between the output of the theoretical model and the measured data, the parameters are found.

Problem Statement :
The curve is described using the following pair of equations:
x(t) = t * cos(θ) - e^(M * |t|) * sin(0.3t) * sin(θ) + X
y(t) = 42 + t * sin(θ) + e^(M * |t|) * sin(0.3t) * cos(θ)
Given that : 
•	t  is defined within the range 6 ≤ t ≤ 60
•	The values of θ, M, and X are unknown  
•	A set of (x, y) points corresponding to these equations is provided in the dataset  

Objective: 
Reduce the difference between the calculated and given points to estimate the correct values of θ, M, and X.

Workflow and Method :
1. Preparation of data  
•	The CSV file (xy_data.csv) containing x–y coordinates is loaded into Python.  
•	If time parameter t is not included, it is uniformly generated between 6 and 60.

2. Model Creation  
•	The given mathematical relations for x(t) and y(t) are implemented as Python functions.

3. Residual Computation  
•	The difference between model-predicted and actual coordinates is calculated.  
•	These residuals represent how far the current parameter guess is from the correct values.

4. Optimization Step  
•	The least_squares() function from the SciPy library is applied to iteratively modify θ, M, and X.  
•	The algorithm stops when the overall error (sum of squared residuals) becomes minimum.

5.Accuracy Evaluation  
•	The L1 Distance(mean absolute difference) is computed between observed and predicted points to evaluate curve quality.

6.Visualization  
•	Both the experimental data and the generated best-fit curve are plotted together using Matplotlib for visual verification.

Underlying Concept :

This assignment illustrates the principle of parameter estimation  a fundamental process used in various domains such as:
•	Machine Learning : finding model weights by minimizing loss  
•	Signal Processing : estimating system or filter parameters  
•	Control Engineering : identifying unknown system coefficients  
•	Sensor Calibration : fitting analytical models to experimental data  
By minimizing the discrepancy between real and modeled results, the hidden constants are accurately inferred.
The final numbers depend on your dataset values.

Tools and Libraries :
Python 3.10
NumPy for numerical computations  
Pandas for dataset handling  
SciPy for optimization algorithms  
Matplotlib for plotting and visualization  

Steps to Execute :
1. Download or clone this repository:
   git clone https://github.com/sharfu18/Research-and-Development-AI-Assignment.git

Author:
Shaik Sharfuddin
B.Tech – Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE)
Amrita School of Engineering

